[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neo.com
I'm your host Dylan Grabowski in this
episode of the smart economy podcast we
were joined by Matt lysing a co-founder
at decentral media a media publication
committed to telling the stories of
Founders Builders and Visionaries who
are creating a new decentralized economy
and internet experience in this
conversation we spoke about journalistic
integrity in an industry such as crypto
that can be quite Narrows sited Matt's
tenure at Bloomberg and his articles
about blockchain over that time how a
meeting with Joe luin from consensus
turned into a book about the ethereum
Dow hack that Matt wrote which is called
out of The Ether creating content around
the people in crypto on decentral media
and so much more just a reminder nothing
said on this podcast is a solicitation
to buy or sell any tokens and that
nothing should be taken as Financial
advice the host or guests May hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
and you can check out a disclaimer on
neon.pdf
joined by Matt lysing the co-founder of
decentral media a media publication
that's dedicated to telling the stories
of Builders who are creating the
decentralized economies that we love and
new internet experiences I'm really
excited to have you on the Pod today
Matt how you doing I'm great D thanks
for having me yeah I uh had a really fun
time kind of digging around into deenal
and seeing the the media that you guys
release and to kind of jump into the
conversation I was really struck by um
the quality of of what you do contribute
to kind of like the broader blockchain
media space and it kind of reminded me
of like why I'm here um I want to build
short-term or I want to build objective
fact-based non-sensational media for
folks to consume and I'm just curious
from your perspective in a world in the
cryptocurrency space where folks are
just so um in like involved with
short-term Market narratives uh how do
we kind of compete against that how do
you create content for folks who want
something that's not necessarily about
the latest token that might go to zero
in the next few days what's that kind of
like battle like for you and your team
yeah well um first of all thanks Dylan I
appreciate the compliment um I I do we
do take a lot of pride in the quality of
what we're doing and the thoughtfulness
and sort of the approach that we're
taking and that's sort of what was the
Genesis of deenal with u myself and my
partner Neil Berkeley who is a
documentary filmmaker we both realize
that we tell stories in similar ways he
read my book about ethereum and I
watched some of his movies like he's got
a fantastic documentary about Gilbert
godfried and another one about Dan
Harmon uh who you know created a
community and Rick and Morty and we both
tell stories in a very people focused
way and I knew that when I was writing
my book out of The Ether to explain
ethereum to folks I had to like tell it
through the characters through the
people who were actually there and who
you like falic who invented it and then
Joe Luben and all the other folks who
came on board to create you know once
the blueprint was there they had to
build it right so it's a very
complicated subject and can get really
dry really fast so I knew I had to
really kind of humanize these folks and
like make them into human beings with
like worries and doubts and fears and
excitement and greed and all sorts you
know all the great human that we
like to like to you know why stories
grab us and so that was the kind of the
founding ethos cuz we didn't think there
was enough of that in crypto we knew
that there were a million crazy weird
fascinating smart characters out there
that we could be talking about and
profiling and saying hey look this is
where the nft world is coming from or
what the heck is a dow well if I can
tell you about this person and make you
care about this person maybe I can teach
you something about a decentralized
autonomous organization right so that's
always been the goal we we don't as you
mentioned we don't write about prices we
don't write about shitcoins we don't
we're not out there like Hawking this to
folks uh who are just looking to make a
buck and that's intentional but it's
also kind of put us in a corner I think
think a little bit I think feel like
we're a niche uh kind of publication in
the space um you look around at our
competitors and they they do great work
but they all almost all of them have an
education component or somewhere where
it's like learn about this or you know
like here's what what coins are where
you know and here they will have prices
and they will have um you know here's
here's an airdrop calendar or whatever
and so we are not doing that and and
it's been hard because I I did come to
the realization um not too long ago that
the vast majority of people in this
space like at least the media consumers
they just want to know what's going up
you know they want to know what to buy
they want to get rich and you know I
don't have a problem with that that's
fine if that's what you want out of
crypto you know you have dollar signs in
your eyes good for you but I believe in
the technology I believe in the
foundation of it and and the underlying
um capacity for it to change the world
uh or to continue changing the world
because I believe it already has changed
the world and so that's what I that's
what gets me out of bed in the morning
you know that's what I really like um
and so it will though I think you know
um kind of cut off cut us off at this
point at least in the Central's sort of
like makeup and what we're doing from
from a big majority of of readers and
and so that makes it harder for a media
publication because you know we're
relying on advertising and we're you
know we're trying to sell sponsorships
and we we want numbers you know to show
people but I think at the end of the day
if those numbers are um like I I'm very
much okay with the numbers being quality
over quantity at this point so I guess
to kind of like take a step back and and
to delve into you know um how you came
up with the idea to write um the book
that you wrote which is dedicated on on
the Builders of the ethereum ecosystem
in the very early days um you also have
kind of an extensive background at
Bloomberg News so maybe you can
interweave uh the kind of history that
you've had in Tradition journalism with
this question as well which is um when
did you first hear about Bitcoin Andor
ethereum and if you're like me um I
heard about it and then just thought oh
that's nice and didn't come back years
later um and if you're not like me or
you are what was your aha moment um and
I'd really love to hear kind of like
maybe even uh intersperse uh the
thoughts and the concepts that your
colleagues in a traditional Financial
publication might have had about the new
and emerging Network in in asset class
as well story about blockchain in 2014
for Bloomberg News um and I had heard
about Bitcoin before that and like you I
dismissed it I didn't get it I thought
it was like ones and zeros and I'm like
how could that be worth anything it
doesn't make any sense but I eventually
stumbled across an article that
explained the blockchain um and and why
this was a new technology that that
hadn't really um been tried before
things previous to that had been
centralized you know or or just uh
basically centralized you know and then
could be manipulated by a bad actor and
and there had been cases of that but
here was a decentralized you know
version of this new network that could
secure Bitcoin and and make it valuable
so that that was the light bulb moment
for me there because I had been covering
Wall Street at Bloomberg News since um
2004 so I went through the financial
crisis covering all that stuff uh I was
a market structure reporter meaning I
had to know how these markets worked
like the plumbing so I was on like you
know the derivatives market and fixed
income Market the US Treasury Market
like I knew how all that stuff worked
and so it's it to boil it down it's all
just a huge Network you know the banks
are there their customers the asset
managers the hedge funds retail it's all
just a giant Network the exchanges of
course the custodians so when I like
okay then what's blockchain blockchain
is really it's just a network you know
you have nodes on the network and they
all you know work in concert to
continually update The Ledger and the
status and they all have to agree right
and then that's why it's so powerful so
the light bulb for there was like well
if if Wall Street as a network could get
onto a blockchain kind of network where
they're all connected directly to each
other then the efficiency gains would be
immense uh the the the uh you would
probably have a lot less uh mistaken
transactions because you know in
blockchain it's either your transaction
is either approved or or or koed like
immediately and that that's not the case
in traditional Finance so all these
things sort of made sense to me um and I
started writing about it and you know
the biggest thing I remember was just
educating my editors um I tell this
story briefly in the book about when I
went to my editor and said hey I want to
cover blockchain he's like great what's
blockchain and you know he had no idea
and and I went through a string of
editors over the years and and it was
con constantly like okay here's I got I
got to now educate this person on it and
kind of start from scratch so that was a
big part of my job like it was internal
you know because if I'm not edit
educating my editors and I bring stories
to them that they don't understand you
know that's a problem and they don't
they might not understand why it's a
good story so we all have to be on the
same page so then Wall Street wasn't
quite ready for blockchain at that point
it was getting there was I think they
were kicking the tires and stuff um they
certainly didn't uh at that point want
to invest in Bitcoin at all that was
like totally anathema to them they you
know it was Silk Road it was child
pornography drug trafficking you know
that that was Bitcoin to the banks at at
in 14 2015 and and some you know you
might say that's all almost still the
case today but then um ethereum came
around and I I sort of like didn't quite
get it at first I I sort of missed the I
didn't know about it like I wasn't
writing about it because it was so new
um it certainly didn't have any
applications in the early days for Wall
Street or for finance it was just you
know just getting started um but I did I
went out I was in New York City and I
lived in Brooklyn and funny enough like
the consensus office so that that's you
know Joe Luben started consensus which
is a startup accelerator basically they
wanted it was where you went to go to to
get help to build an app that would be
on the ethereum uh in the ethereum
ecosystem and it was around the corner
from my favorite bar in my neighborhood
so it was like I knew where it was and I
went out there one day and Joe sat me
down and he told me the whole story
about the world computer and and your
listeners probably have heard this
before about the world computer and that
was the thing that Joe was pushing then
and like the way that he was um The
Narrative he was telling was like look
we have this like Bitcoin is great but
it's a it's a means of transa it's a
means of value transfer right it's it's
a currency ethereum is that same sort of
underlying um you know Foundation but
it's a computer on top of that and we
can we are now talking about smart
contracts which are just code and think
about all the things that can be put
into code now we can put those into into
a blockchain environment with this um
Global Network of validators underneath
it right so that was like boom you know
that was like really big for me and it
it really just kind of got me very
interested in it now whereas you know I
thought like oh this this might have
some legs and now I was just like okay
this I just saw it you know I just I
just thought it made a lot of sense and
then it wasn't long after that that the
Dow kind of got spun up so this would
have been in early 2016 I think that I
went out to consensus and talked to Joe
the Dow um which is uh the da you know
was the it wasn't the first but it was
this project where basically in a
nutshell everybody needed to fund their
own startup for ethereum right you
needed apps you needed stuff for people
to do on ethereum otherwise it just sits
there um so the da was this idea of a
guy named Kristoff jent he was uh
working at slockett which was a German
uh startup and he needed money and he
realized everybody else needed money so
he thought like why don't we just all
pull it together into the Dow in this
this one big pot of money we can sell
tokens and then you get eth you sell you
buy tokens with eth and we put that
ether in a treasury and then people will
vote on the projects that they want to
fund out of the treasury with the Dow
tokens right it's it's a digitized
version of a a venture capital firm um
hadn't hadn't never been done of course
because you know we're talking about new
smart contracts in ethereum but long
story short they got 250 million bucks
into the treasury when they thought they
might get five or 10 million tops Maybe
15 it was hacked um money was drained uh
nobody could do anything about it
because it was a bug in this in in the
code and the code can't be changed um
you know it takes it takes a lot of
effort to change the code because it's
already deployed and it's it's out in
the public realm so they just had to sit
there and watch as like about $59
million just got stolen from them and so
I'd never seen anything like this like
it was just a fascinating story on so
many levels and um it really just hooked
me and again I was talking earlier about
people and so what I've realized and I
discovered was that the people behind
the scenes in the story of The Da and
how the the ethereum community kind of
coales around it and and mobilized to
first to stop the hack you know because
it could have continued um and then to
to sort of like repair the damage and
try to like go forward with ethereum
because it was less than a year old when
this happened so you know there were
some people who thought that this might
be it for eth you know like it was like
very Rocky at this point point and so I
ended up digging into that story and I I
told that story it was called the um The
Ether Thief uh it was a piece for
Market's magazine which is a magazine
that Bloomberg puts out and it was just
like man it was the most fun i' ever had
in my career I loved that story so much
and um it just got to know a lot of the
people who were working behind the
scenes and the story was just fantastic
and so it came out and I realized like
oh man this is a great foundation for a
book I could tell this story and weave
it through the book as a sort of way of
like a narrative advice to keep some of
the tension in it and I can tell it in
chapters and then in other chapters I
can tell you about metallic muine and I
can tell you about the etherium
co-founders and I can tell you about the
ethereum foundation and all these things
and like why why blockchain was New and
so it just like that once I had the
structure for the book it just made a
lot of sense to me and I was able to
kind of go forward and do that and uh
the book came out in 2020 and um you
know uh like I said earlier my partner
my my found my co-founder and partner
Neil read the book he wanted to option
it uh to make it into a dock and that's
how we got started so you know without
the Dow like I wouldn't be here probably
talking to you right now and deenal
wouldn't exist so it all goes for anyone
who's listening to this out of the ether
is now uh live four years it's been
published and it has a really awesome
rating on Amazon uh 4.4 stars out of 226
reviews so um I'm probably definitely
going to pick it up um something that's
super fascinating is that you were there
real time I'm also totally going to look
up The Ether Thief after our
conversation and read that article so I
guess I'm curious then because um during
the ten your tenure at Bloomberg it you
left in 2021 Bitcoin and and and
ethereum as well not only launched but
also had a whole lifetime of perspective
shifts you had the first Bitcoin block
mined and then by the time you left
Bitcoin was becoming illegal to mine in
China um we had ethereum the world
supercomputer and then there was this
hack and this existential threat and
dilemma to the network and then of
course the narrative shifted afterwards
to becoming this this this vehicle this
venue for crowdsource funding in the Ico
bubble and then I'm sure there are so
many other obituaries that you wrote for
projects that were building on ethereum
during that time so while you're at
Bloomberg it sounds like you're
continuously pitching these stories to
your editors you're cycling through new
editors what was the perspective like of
the folks that were there were they like
oh Matt you know know you you keep
wanting to write about these crazy
things are you just trying to get off
like boring traditional Market structure
articles or were folks kind of in your
camp where they're like this is
interesting but I don't know maybe we'll
just let you cover it because you're
becoming the Kookie blockchain guy how
did the perspective of the folks that
were that were at Bloomberg and your
editors how did that change over time
did pitching these stories get easier or
were you kind of like always painted as
like the weird crypto guy in the corner
I think I got a little bit of that um
and just let me say I definitely am not
the only person that was writing about
crypto at Bloomberg and I wasn't the
first even you know Olga kif was there
she was writing about Bitcoin before me
um there were there were others um so
but what what what happened was at first
because the banks sort of did not want
to touch Bitcoin you know with a 10-
foot pull it it it also had a pretty bad
reputation within Bloomberg itself you
know Bloomberg is a pretty conservative
place when you get on the business side
because you know their business is
selling terminals Bloomberg terminals to
Wall Street and to hedge funds and to
asset managers and so you know they're
very tied into to the culture of Wall
Street Mike Bloomberg came out of
Solomon you know he was a bond Trader
and that's just like his DNA so
Bloomberg itself didn't want to have
much to do with it uh for many years
then like the 2017 Ico boom happened and
Bitcoin goes above $20,000 eth I think
got to ,400 something like that and all
of a sudden everybody in the country is
talking about it I remember it was that
Thanksgiving of 2017 and I was here in
La visiting and um and no I was actually
living here and I was hearing I was just
overhearing about it in bars and stuff
and restaurants people talking about
Bitcoin so it had kind of broken through
the consciousness of the the American
public and with that price action
Bloomberg could no longer ignore it
because it's you know Bloomberg
customers wanted in on that they wanted
they wanted data they wanted analytics
they wanted ways to track it and to
figure out okay when am I getting in
when am I getting out and that's what
Bloomberg does so well so then it
started to get taken seriously and they
started putting more functionality on
the terminal related to crypto and all
of a sudden a lot of new a lot of new
people started writing about it um
because while it was great and like I
always say this like I love the Ico boom
because it uh it took a very traditional
thing one of the foundations of of
Finance is raising money right it's like
where do you get your Capital how do you
fund your business whether it's a bakery
or a bank or um a startup that wants to
write you know wants to create a
decentralized exchange on ethereum you
need money so the Ico took that and
digitized it and put it on blockchain
and where anybody now could go buy coins
and the developer team would get those
funds and if they're honest they would
use that money to create their project
and it would be launch in a year or two
right now that's amazing you know you've
taken a very stayed kind of old school
function of Finance that's like gatekeep
you know there's Gatekeepers you have to
go to a bank or Venture Capital fund or
you need somebody with money that will
in like believe in you and it's it's
tough um and now all of a sudden that
was open to the world to anyone with a
with a you know internet connection that
could navigate the ethereum world could
now buy your coin and you get that money
so I thought that was you know hugely
fascinating to me the downside of course
is that there were a ton of scams you
know probably maybe 90% plus were just
scams and they were ripping people off
and they get the money and they're
they're gone you never see them again so
you know a lot of people were writing
about that a lot of people I think in
the news business that was sort of their
first experience with crypto and and
seeing those rug pulls and just scams
was not a great first impression you
know especially when the other thing
they might have known about was like
Silk Road and um you know um the guy
that uh Ross wber right and that whole
kind of saga so it there were people on
on like that understood I think the
technology and its implications for
finance and and the broader world at
Bloomberg News and then there are people
that were kind of like we we don't think
this is they were very very skeptical
and and anytime you know I ran into them
it was tough like I had to sort of
like it's a negotiation right it's like
okay well like I I remember doing a lot
of reporting on Tether back in the day
and it seemed like you know it seemed
really shady it it the the guys behind
tether wouldn't talk you didn't know
where the bank their banking was it was
moving from you know Asia to Canada to
the
Caribbean you know it just felt like a
scam it and it just you know so I
remember writing some stories I got some
banking documents from them uh you know
about where they where their money was
and I had like kind of put like you
could line up um deposits and
transaction and transfers in this and
their banking uh down in at Noble Bank
in the Caribbean with creation uh events
for tether on the blockchain and I'm
like look this is this is matching up I
think they're legit and I I remember
having editors at Bloomberg who like
killed the story like because that's not
the narrative that they wanted they they
were convinced that tether was a scam
and you know I was very skeptical but
once I got deeper into it and people
started kind of showing me what was
going on and then I started talking to
people who were like how they were
interacting with tether at Noble Bank as
a customer and they were all doing this
internally by internally transferring
money from their account to tether's
account it all started to make sense and
I'm like oh okay maybe this isn't a scam
and here we are today many years later
they're being you know their assets are
now custody by caner Gerald they they
made it through all the craziness of the
last couple of years and didn't blow up
never deeg and so you know I feel like I
I I got a little I got that wrong you
know and I but at least I tried to kind
of follow the um facts and so but the
facts at some points didn't matter uh to
some people uh and and I that so that
was really kind of disheartening to me
and and was not a great experience as a
reporter and so you know I think uh it's
it's and I think it's still to this day
you can still see there's a there's a
quite a bias against crypto at the New
York Times um I think the financial
times has had a very long uh you know
anti- crypto stance um and and it's at
this point you know one of the things
that like just to jump around here I'm
sorry but like when the when now it
looks like The Ether exchange traded
fund is going to get approved like
that's it man that's like it like you
know that I I feel like that's the
battle should be one there you know and
like this is not a scam it's not going
away this is being accepted by the
government as you know a new asset class
and and something that is worthy of um
retail Investments you know through a
401k or whatever you want and yet I
think there's still a lot of people out
there that are doubling and tripling
down on their stance that this is a
Ponzi and and it has no use case and you
know so I've long written about this and
like I'm I'm tired of that debate I'm
just so tired because there's so much
information out there that you could use
to to educate yourself on it and and
people choose not to so that's kind of
where I'm coming from and it's a it is a
shame as a journalist to see my
profession you know parts of it sort of
still have have so much uh baggage
around this that they can't get past it
but you know one of the great things
about having your own Media company is
you don't need I don't care about any of
that stuff I don't have to care about
any of that stuff and and we're forging
ahead and doing what we want to do um
something that I had one question I
wanted to ask but then you brought up um
kind kind of like the EF and I'm just
wondering if maybe this is one of those
things that there's a Forever permanent
uphill battle um cuz if you look at gold
uh Gold's been around our entire lives
uh thousands of years but like if you go
on the radio and you hear somebody
espousing the values of gold they're a
crazy nut job gold bug and people think
they're crazy because like oh the dollar
is going to collapse and Gold's the only
thing that's going to save us so are you
afraid maybe that uh maybe like
cryptocurrencies and digital assets get
stuck in a bucket like that um in in the
fact that like only crazy nut jobs are
going to be talking about the merits of
crypto or is it um something along the
lines of the internet where we fight it
and fight it and fight it and then one
day we realize it's it's everywhere
around us and we can't live our lives
without it I think it's the ladder for
sure um I wouldn't have kind of risked
everything in my career and personal
kind of like a little bit of my personal
life you know to jump in um on on
something and and create my own startup
I didn't believe that we definitely have
those folks in in ethereum uh and in
crypto in general you know the folks who
think inflation is going to you know
swallow the world and the dollar will
eventually fall and fail as a global
Reserve currency I don't I don't buy
that uh I don't think that's going to
happen I do think there are shifts going
on and I do think if you want to get
into like the bigger picture like the
Petro dollar has has been you know
something that has been propped up since
the 70s because oil can only be bought
in US Dollars and so that I mean that
was a fantastic brilliant way of like
after we took the the dollar off the
gold standard to sort of like keep the
dollar like so important in the global
economy I but that's going to have to
change soon I think you know like with
with oil decre you know I just think I
feel like that has it's kind of running
its course and something else is going
to have to come in I don't know what
that is I don't think it's necessarily
crypto I always say to people that I
think crypto is an alternative it's not
it's not meant to um Bitcoin is not
meant to replace the dollar ethereum is
not meant to replace Wall Street it's
just meant to create an alternative for
people who want to do things a different
way who want to organize themselves
differently or have um you know more
transparency and and more um kind of I
think they're more robust systems to be
honest um so and and so I think what I
am waiting for is the day when people
are using crypto and they don't even
know it you know when it's on the back
end and and it's a bit of a I hear that
a lot and I say it myself probably too
much but you know you don't need to know
how the internet works to have a
smartphone you know you don't need to
know how GPS Works to use Google Maps
and all that stuff so that when we get
to that point where um blockchain is in
the background and it's unlocking things
that have not been possible before then
and and people things that people want
you know because you need to want it you
need to want to participate here uh and
so I think in the Realms of like art and
music I think that it might those might
be certain inroads where
you suddenly can have a much more direct
relationship with an artist you like
like a musician where blockchain is
involved because now it's kind of like
peer-to-peer it just happens that maybe
your peer is Taylor Swift or something
and by interacting with her and by
owning some of her nfts you can get into
a special Lounge at her show in La you
know and there's all these there's all
these things that can that that are
unlocked here where people don't
necessarily need to know that it's
blockchain and and that it's nft they
just need to know that they press this
button on their phone and they have the
thing in their wallet and so not to get
too much in the weeds but I I feel like
we're we're definitely moving in that
direction and I I think that's that's
when it's going to be like what you said
where it's the internet and it's just
everybody accepts it and it's it's just
a part of our Lives nice thanks for uh
walking down the side street with me um
I did want to ask before this kind of
like line popped into my head based off
the eth ETF um so you mentioned that you
were you knew where consensus was
located in New York because it was right
around the corner from your favorite bar
and you got to meet uh Joe Luben and
that kind of like got the gears going
because you got to sit down with like
one of the head honchos one of the quote
unquote founders of ethereum and you
also mentioned that there was an uphill
battle at Bloomberg sometimes with what
you could and couldn't cover you would
pull the thread and you would find a
story and you would be told to cancel it
so I'm curious if what came first for
the motivation to write out of The Ether
was it that you were meeting interesting
individuals and you were able to have
this uh pipeline to folks who were in
The know that you could draw a story out
of or was it that this is now your
opportunity to do your own thing and to
tell a story that you were uncovering
and that you wanted to tell in your own
way because your profession the folks
that hired you weren't allowing you to
do that with other stories that you were
uncovering yeah well so I had very few
stories killed at Bloomberg that that
one I told you about was was a kind of a
rare example but it still you know is
upsetting as a journalist because you
don't want that to happen um especially
when you think the story is true and
it's getting killed for for reasons that
aren't really valid in in that regard so
I just want to say that um the reason I
wanted to write out of The Ether was
because after the magazine story came
out um everybody who I had spoken to and
the sources I had used they really liked
it you know so I think I got I got some
credit for that story and and other
people who wouldn't talk to me for that
story kind of came to me when I started
asking around about the book and they
said okay yeah I I will I'm happy to
talk to you and guess what I have a a a
treasure Trove of documents that I'd
love to share with you and like all this
great stuff that um I hadn't had access
to for the magazine story and also I
wasn't you know that wasn't kind of the
the purpose of the magazine story it was
a very focused story on the hack and
what the folks did um behind the scenes
to um sort of combat the hack so that
was um you know that that's what I
wanted to do with the book and also
remember um this story hadn't been told
back then you know like I I was I was
not the first like camil Russo's book uh
infinite machine came out a little bit
before mine and then Laura Shin's book
came out after mine but before that like
the I think I think people knew the
story you know people it had been
written about of course and but nobody
had like written a book about the
history of this and like where it came
from so that was that was what I wanted
to do because I just I mean I I've been
telling stories and doing reporting for
more than 20 years and and I swear to
you uh this story just it had everything
and I KN and having it all be real and
like happened a lot of it happened in
the public sphere like I was able to
pull from Reddit threads and tweets and
all this stuff that's still out there
like people were responding and reacting
to what was going on in real time and I
mean just the Fantastic nature of it and
the fact that it was all true and and
that this cast of characters was so
fascinating and and turned out to be so
generous and um with their time with me
and and and wanting to help and and
wanting the story to get out there and
wanting it to be done well um you know
that was a dream come true and so by the
time I was done reporting on the book I
spent about a year on it I had a
mountain of notebooks and files and
papers and I knew that I had a fantastic
story and all I had to do was pull out
the pieces that I needed because I knew
I had it all and I I ended up writing
the book I think in about three months
maybe less it just
because once I was at that point I'm
like I okay this story is there and I I
knew I had it all and like I said it's
just kind of a logistical thing of like
okay where is that interview I need that
piece and I need that quote and then it
just all fell in the piece or all in the
place so um I'd love to talk more about
the book but I also want to talk about
uh deenal so in I myself got into uh the
blockchain space in 2017 I was a former
urban planner um I actually worked for
calr in California and in 2018 I left
urban planning and went full-time into
covering a blockchain ecosystem and I
myself wrote the Ico for about 30
projects and probably the obituary for
29 of those 30 so um I'm just curious
like as you've done your time at
Bloomberg and now as you've done your
your three years at at deenal and and
Counting um what is the kind of way in
which you guys decide what to make
movies about make documentaries about
make podcasts about WR about is it kind
of like the dog wagging the tail or the
tail wagging the dog because we have so
many different narratives in 2017 it was
the icos and 2020 it was defi 2021 it
was nfts last year was the institutions
are finally coming after I've heard that
my entire six years that I was in crypto
so how do you guys kind of choose what
to cover and what to create um content
about is it like prevailing narratives
that are currently in the market or do
you focus on something else is it really
more uh on the person and what they're
working on or is there a combination of
the two that you use to kind of like
guide um what is created next yeah I
think there's It's a combination of the
two but I think the more heavily
weighted factor is the person involved
you know the people like like I said at
the beginning we really want to be
focusing on on the people and making
them human and three-dimensional so that
then we can explain some more
complicated things to you um like
account obst raction you know like a new
wallet that's based on Smart contracts
like that's not a great topic to to to
Del into but if you've got somebody
who's quirky and weird and you know
they're really excited about this and
you can kind of use them as a foil to
get in uh and talk about this then
that's what we do the other thing I'd
say is that what I've done um with the
editorial side of dential is I've got
different reporters all over the world
and one of them is writing about where
music and web 3 intersect one of them is
writing about entertainment and web 3
and where they intersect I've got one
somebody in New York who's writing about
politics and Regulation and and web 3
got somebody in Singapore who's doing a
mix of all of those things um and what's
just keeping an eye on what's going on
uh in Southeast Asia because it's a hot
bed of activity and so you know you once
you kind of Silo it into those then you
can kind of specialize and tell the
stories of what's going on like that's
why I Now understand how screwed up the
music industry is and how badly artists
have been getting screwed for years and
years and and why it's such a ripe um
industry for web 3 disruption then on
the other hand musicians as a whole
almost dis distrust nfts and they don't
want to get involved with um with crypto
because I think they they feel like it's
a scam and that it could hurt their
reputation that's very different than if
you're talking about the Fine Art scene
and what has been able to to happen with
nfts and and for artists to make money
uh in ways that they never could before
because now they're more in control of
their art and you know there's there's
more you can connect directly with your
the people who collect your art even as
it sold on in secondary and tertiary
sales so that's really kind of upended
the the Fine Art Market um and so I I
find that that really helps us because
you're right it's like there it's it's
touching so many things now where it
used to be very kind of um I used to go
to conferences and I'd see the same
people a lot and I don't do that I don't
see them anymore like I hardly see
anybody I know I just got back from
consensus and you know I'm lucky to to
run into two or three people I know and
that's great you know it's it's just
it's a it's a faction or it's a function
of what what's going on and how this is
exploding um so but I I think by paying
attention to the areas uh in Commerce
and and culture and business and finance
where this is really having an an effect
that that's how we kind of stay on top
of it and then we want to find the
people who are driving this like we're
working on a a film about what's going
on in Wyoming because they they've got a
very good Dow law up there where they'
they now a DA gets the same protection
as a limited liability Corporation and
it's as easy to set up as an LLC so we
want to go up there we want to find the
folks in Billings you know who who came
up with this idea like who are you like
where where did this come from and we
want to tell that story and in this is
like the way I learned that Wyoming
actually created the little Li limited
liability company structure in the 70s
which is really cool and now they're on
the Forefront again in a digital way so
you know we write story we make films
about Bitcoin miners that are Cowboys
you know and like we write we make films
about um adult um entertainment stars
who got kicked off of only fans and are
now they created their own web 3 version
and she's now a multi-millionaire and is
is employing like hundreds of people and
so you know these the folks are out
there this is real it's happening and
and the the stories are um they just are
just waiting to be told yeah I highly
recommend anyone go to uh the D Central
website um in addition to these stories
there are also other really cool stories
um I just watched a short film uh on the
the dude who wrote from bars to bitcoin
and just a really fascinating kind of
view into how these new emerging asset
classes can Empower people who come from
a background that is kind of like
designed to hold them back like he talks
about how he's unable to find jobs after
he gets out of prison things like
dishwashing and how it enabled him to
become an Entre preneur um so definitely
highly recommend those are phenomenal
films you guys are doing great there I
know we're kind of wrapping up on the a
lot of time that you have available
today but you did mention at the
beginning of our conversation something
that I really wanted to ask you about
and I know that uh it can be kind of
maybe a sensitive subject but uh when it
comes to funding so like large crypto
Publications will get paid by companies
to write puff pieces about them
basically write articles that they were
given outlines for so how do you guys
kind of balance this artistic sort of
expression of choosing to talk about the
person and people and the stories and
the way you want to narrate them versus
going out and getting ad revenue or
things like this are you kind of solely
relying on like internet traffic
generation or do you also have partners
that are kind of down for the cause for
you guys and are willing to like foot
some of the bill um even though you
might not be getting hundreds of
thousands of clicks on some sort of puff
piece for the newest L1 yeah um that's a
great question we we were lucky that we
did um we did a seed round of
fundraising um sort of right before the
last crash uh we we got in uh I think
the summer of 2021 and um so we we do
have we do have that and that's what
we've been working off of um we are you
know focusing on growing our audience
and growing um you know because we we
are looking for advertising we are
looking for sponsors for films um
sponsors for the website and it is it is
hard um because we're not being I think
we're not being Sensational and I think
we're treating this uh seriously with
kind of like uh approach that I think it
deserves uh like I said before I think
that kind of puts us in a niche category
but my hope you know is that there's
room for us you know there is room for
coin Des there's room for coin Telegraph
there's room for the block there's room
for deenal we all are doing somewhat
similar things but in different ways and
um you know I I think at this point
we're still completely uh independent we
don't you know have advertising we are
completely journalistically independent
we um you know we are owned majority
owned by myself and my partner Neil and
so I I I like that because you know
there are sometimes when in crypto you
the appearance of of sort of impropriety
or of conflict of interest can be enough
to kind of like cast out on folks that's
that's the way journalism is in general
it's just the appearance of something is
is enough for a lot of people to make
them think that you're in the bag for
somebody
uh we don't have that and and I'm not
saying that others do but I do I do like
how we are independent and we are making
all of our choices ourselves and all of
our editorial decisions are entirely
done by us um with no outside input so
that that's you know whether we can
continue that way uh you know I we'll
see but uh I'm hoping that I think
there's a new foundation in here in the
market with um the EF uh seemingly
moving forward and the seemingly
agreement among Regulators in the US
that eth is not a sec security and that
it is um an asset class like Bitcoin I
think that to me could put in a very
strong foundation so that our upward
trajectory is sort of more like a just a
slowly Rising line rather than a roller
coaster you know way up and then way
down kind of thing that we've seen in
past bu U bear cycles and so kind of
wrapping up um what's next on the road
map for decentral media you mentioned
some some uh docu that are on the way um
and kind of tied into this question also
who are the folks that you're looking to
collaborate with are you looking for
other filmmakers other writers other
podcast hosts guests um what's just kind
of next on your radar in terms of both
those yeah we're just going to keep
doing what we're doing uh making new
films making uh you know writing new
stories every week uh we we tend to put
out four to five stories a week uh films
take a little bit longer uh just because
of the production uh concerns and all of
that we are looking to partner with
folks in the distribution of films that
is one area where um I think in film
making web 3 has had a lot of uh
positive impacts like from fundraising
where you could sell nfts or or sell
coins you know to to raise money to then
go and make your film or your project
and then you can do all of that but once
you get to the point where you want to
distribute your film you're sort of you
hit a wall where you hit there's Netflix
and there's HBO and there's you know
Twitter and these are all centralized
non web 3 entities so we're hoping to
find um folks who are working on that as
as a decentralized uh distribution in
the sort of web three ethos for for the
films we're making since that just fit
that just feels right to us um that's
still I think early days but there are
there are folks out there who are
working on that um and we're just you
know hoping to grow and and to to to get
to a point where we can start monetizing
and and keep this going um because I
think you know I think what we're doing
is important work and I think uh our
competitors are doing it but they're not
I think as focused on it as we are and
and I'm I've been proud of that and I
just want to try to maintain that
standard going forward and hopefully
this bull market is a long one and can
kind of really cement some of the things
uh some of the better parts of this
industry so that they they have a better
Foundation going forward and last and
final hopefully short question um do you
wish that you left Bloomberg and
launched decentral media
sooner no this was the right time the
universe kind of uh conspired in a few
different ways that that it just was uh
it was the right time and Neil you know
we found each other and I my book was a
part of it and so I think that all that
all to me just said this this I was
given a very strong signal and I think
um I just had to have the faith to take
the leap which I did well to anyone
who's listening out there who's thinking
about jumping ship and the industry they
work in now and want to go full-time
into blockchain web through crypto
whatever your flavor of describing this
industry is today um if if the if the
universe is saying go for it go for it
uh Matt thank you so much for taking the
time to join the podcast uh I love what
you guys are doing at deenal media um
It's Quickly going to become a website
that I check multiple times a week just
to see what's going on and I'm probably
going to consume all the videos that you
release so thank you for for you and
your your partner for uh what you guys
have created and kudos to all the
content creators that you're
collaborating with I love the podcasts
the Articles the movies um and just keep
on doing what you're doing thank you so
much Don it's really been a pleasure had
a really good time talking to you thanks
cheers well what did you think of that
conversation Matt felt like one of my
people and I felt a certain kinship with
him particularly as we spoke about
creating stories and media around the
people in blockchain and all the reasons
why we're here it was also super
fascinating to delve into Matt's Genesis
into writing about crypto and the
bookwriting process and I really enjoyed
hearing more about the moment in 2017
when cryptocurrencies became a Mainstay
and Bloomberg had to admit that the
market was saying this asset class is
here to stay and the publication
couldn't ignore it anymore to keep up to
date with the podcast head over to www.s
smartecom podcast.com and if you like
the guest that we've had on the show
please consider showing your support for
us by rating and reviewing this episode
and any other given episodes on your
favorite podcasting platform every rate
and review really helps us get the show
in front of more ears and more eyes
and of course if you're a Neo token
holder please consider voting for Neo
news today as your Council
representative we have proudly been
serving the Neo ecosystem since 2017 and
we'll continue to do so by putting
portions of our Council rewards directly
back into ecosystem growth initiatives
so with all that said thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast and we look
forward to catching you guys next time